Alright, we are now going to add a map
that will let us customize our
game worlds. A good
uh test map, I've found,
is just
formatted like this with 9 and
then 7. So we're going to use
that for right now. I'll explain how to
make your own worlds soon enough. Now,
to implement this map, what we're going
to do is We're going to come down here to
where we're drawing the tiles. We're
going to say, if x minus
x off greater than or
equal to 0,
you'll see that that actually gets rid of
everything less than 0,
um which is to be expected.
And rng not equals 10.
Then we are going to try. This is
a thing that makes it so that
when you are programming,
it ignores errors. And in this case,
when the tile is blank, it will get
an error. So we do need to use try here.
So then we're going to take math.floor x
minus x off divided by tile size,
negative math.floor Y minus
Y off minus 640, and that
number is actually coming from righthere,
uh divided by tile size again.
That is going to get our RNG value.
Then tries require a catch.
That's what happens when it finds an
error and we're just not going to do
anything because that means
there is no tile in that location. So
we're going to leave it empty.
Now, when we run this, we see our
wonderful test scene appear.
Now, there's no collisions with the
player yet. We'll add that in the next
video. But there are some annoying things
that I am noticing with the camera that
we can fix right now. So
first, you'll notice that to
the left, we can't actually do
anything there. So we're going to just
stop the camera from scrolling too far in
that direction, since there's not going
to ever be anything there anyway.
So that's super simple. If xoff
greater than zero, xoff equals zero.
So let's run that just to test it.
And oh, there's a weird
shifting thing going on. That's actually
a really simple fix. Order
matters in programming. All we need to do
is just move this down below the player
movement, and now it's fixed.
So just keep that in mind. Order matters
when programming. Now, you'll also notice
when the player jumps, the camera doesn't
shift at all. If we do any vertical
parkour, that will be an issue. So let's
handle that right now. If PY
plus Y off is
less than 200, y off plus equals speed
times 1.5, else if
py plus y off.
four-- is greater than 400 and
y off not equals
0.
Then we are going to set y
off minus equals
speed times 1.5 again. This works
very similar to our scrolling to the left
and right. Then we're going to go if y
off less than zero, y off equals
zero. That's just going to prevent the
y um offset from scrolling
too far down. But now when we jump, we
get a nice scroll up.